.TH "biblio2yaml" "1" "August 31, 2013" "pandoc\-citeproc manual" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
biblio2yaml \- convert bibliographic database to YAML suitable for
pandoc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
biblio2yaml [\f[I]options\f[]] [\f[I]file\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[C]biblio2yaml\f[] will convert an existing bibliography (in any of
the formats listed above) into a YAML bibliography of the sort that can
be included in the \f[C]references\f[] field of pandoc\[aq]s metadata.
.PP
Simplest usage is
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
biblio2yaml\ FILE
\f[]
.fi
.PP
which will convert FILE and print the result to stdout.
The format will be derived from FILE\[aq]s extension, according to this
table:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
Format\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ File\ extension
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\ \ \ \ \ \ \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
MODS\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .mods
BibLaTeX\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .bib
BibTeX\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .bibtex
RIS\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .ris
EndNote\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .enl
EndNote\ XML\ \ \ \ \ \ \ .xml
ISI\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .wos
MEDLINE\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .medline
Copac\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .copac
JSON\ citeproc\ \ \ \ \ .json
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[C]biblio2yaml\f[] can also be used as a pipe, taking input from
stdin, in which case the format must be specified explicitly using the
\f[C]\-f/\-\-format\f[] flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[C]\-f\f[] \f[I]FORMAT\f[], \f[C]\-\-format=\f[]\f[I]FORMAT\f[]
Specify format of bibliography to be converted.
Legal values are \f[C]biblatex\f[], \f[C]bibtex\f[], \f[C]ris\f[],
\f[C]endnote\f[], \f[C]endnotexml\f[], \f[C]isi\f[], \f[C]medline\f[],
\f[C]copac\f[], and \f[C]json\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-h,\ \-\-help\f[]
Print usage information.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-V,\ \-\-version\f[]
Print version.
.RS
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
John MacFarlane, Andrea Rossato.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]pandoc\f[] (1), \f[C]pandoc\-citeproc\f[] (1).
.PP
The \f[C]biblio2yaml\f[] source code and all documentation may be
downloaded from <http://github.com/jgm/pandoc-citeproc/>.
