.TH "pandoc\-citeproc" "1" "August 31, 2013" "pandoc\-citeproc manual" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
pandoc\-citeproc \- filter to resolve citations in a pandoc document.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
pandoc\-citeproc [bib2yaml|bib2json] [options] [file..]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[C]pandoc\-citeproc\f[] executable has two modes, filter mode and
convert mode.
.SS Filter mode
.PP
Run without arguments, it acts as a filter that takes a JSON\-encoded
Pandoc document, formats citations and adds a bibliography, and returns
a JSON\-encoded pandoc document.
.PP
To process citations with pandoc, call pandoc\-citeproc as a filter:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
pandoc\ \-\-filter\ pandoc\-citeproc\ input.md\ \-s\ \-o\ output.html
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The bibliography will be put into a pandoc \f[C]Div\f[] container with
class \f[C]references\f[].
.PP
pandoc\-citeproc will look for the following metadata fields in the
input:
.PP
\f[C]bibliography\f[]: A path, or YAML list of paths, of bibliography
files to use.
These may be in any of the formats supported by bibutils.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
Format\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ File\ extension
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\ \ \ \ \ \ \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
MODS\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .mods
BibLaTeX\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .bib
BibTeX\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .bibtex
RIS\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .ris
EndNote\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .enl
EndNote\ XML\ \ \ \ \ \ \ .xml
ISI\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .wos
MEDLINE\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .medline
Copac\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ .copac
JSON\ citeproc\ \ \ \ \ .json
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[C]references\f[]: A YAML list of references.
Each reference is a YAML object.
The format is essentially CSL JSON format.
Here is an example:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\-\ id:\ doe2006
\ \ author:
\ \ \ \ family:\ Doe
\ \ \ \ given:\ [John,\ F.]
\ \ title:\ Article
\ \ page:\ 33\-34
\ \ issued:
\ \ \ \ year:\ 2006
\ \ type:\ article\-journal
\ \ volume:\ 6
\ \ container\-title:\ Journal\ of\ Generic\ Studies
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The contents of fields will be interpreted as markdown when appropriate:
so, for example, emphasis and strong emphasis can be used in title
fileds.
Simple tex math will also be parsed and rendered appropriately.
.PP
\f[C]csl\f[] or \f[C]citation\-style\f[]: Path to a CSL style file.
If the file is not found relative to the working directory,
pandoc\-citeproc will look in the \f[C]$HOME/.csl\f[] directory (or
\f[C]C:\\Users\\USERNAME\\AppData\\Roaming\\csl\f[] in Windows 7).
.PP
\f[C]citation\-abbreviations\f[]: Path to a CSL abbreviations JSON file.
The format is described
here (http://citationstylist.org/2011/10/19/abbreviations-for-zotero-test-release).
Here is a short example:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
{\ "default":\ {
\ \ \ \ "container\-title":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "Lloyd\[aq]s\ Law\ Reports":\ "Lloyd\[aq]s\ Rep",
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "Estates\ Gazette":\ "EG",
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "Scots\ Law\ Times":\ "SLT"
\ \ \ \ }
\ \ }
}
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The metadata must contain either \f[C]references\f[] or
\f[C]bibliography\f[] or both as a source of references.
\f[C]csl\f[] and \f[C]citation\-abbreviations\f[] are optional.
If \f[C]csl\f[] is not provided, \f[C]chicago\-author\-date.csl\f[] will
be used by default.
.SS Convert mode
.PP
If the argument \f[C]bib2yaml\f[] or \f[C]bib2json\f[] is used,
\f[C]pandoc\-citeproc\f[] will not process citations; instead, it will
treat its input (from stdin or files) as a bibliography and convert it
either to a pandoc YAML metadata section, suitable for inclusion in a
pandoc document (\f[C]bib2yaml\f[]), or as a CSL JSON bibliography,
suitable for import to zotero (\f[C]bib2json\f[]).
.PP
The \f[C]\-\-format\f[] option can be used to specify the bibliography
format, though when files are used, \f[C]pandoc\-citeproc\f[] can
generally guess this from the extension.
.PP
This mode supersedes the old \f[C]biblio2yaml\f[] program.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[C]\-h,\ \-\-help\f[]
Print usage information.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-V,\ \-\-version\f[]
Print version.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-f\f[] \f[I]FORMAT\f[], \f[C]\-\-format=\f[]\f[I]FORMAT\f[]
Specify format of bibliography to be converted.
Legal values are \f[C]biblatex\f[], \f[C]bibtex\f[], \f[C]ris\f[],
\f[C]endnote\f[], \f[C]endnotexml\f[], \f[C]isi\f[], \f[C]medline\f[],
\f[C]copac\f[], and \f[C]json\f[].
.RS
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Andrea Rossato and John MacFarlane.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]pandoc\f[] (1).
.PP
The pandoc\-citeproc source code and all documentation may be downloaded
from <http://github.com/jgm/pandoc-citeproc/>.
